You do not have to feel obligated, but please try to keep your article
according to following standards, so that we can get a homogenic look.
The standards are quite natural and will appear logical when followed.
Different sections contain different information; below are three
general section which are mostly used.

Also look at these:

-   <Standards:function>
-   <Standards:variable>
-   <Standards:names>

Note that in practice you don't need to look at these standards. Just
copy the wikicode of the [function example](function_example "wikilink")
or [variable\_example](variable_example "wikilink") and edit its
content. When you are unsure about something, you can always refer to
it.

Definition
----------

This is the name of the [function](function "wikilink"),
[process](process "wikilink"), [variable](variable "wikilink"), ... ,
and also, probably, the name of the article. Before the name is the
[datatype](datatype "wikilink") of the variable or of what the function
returns.

Here is some general information such as what the function's or
variable's purpose, or a specific [dll](dll "wikilink") you need. Notice
the white line, indicating a sort of separate section.

Notes
-----

Some more in depth information about the subject, if needed. The kind of
information not needed for normal use, but more like "doing it like so
is bad or doing it like that is good".

Example
-------

A simple example using the function (between &lt;pre&gt; tags). Please
do not use links in your code, but refer to the keywords beneath the
code in a list, if needed. Only include relevant keywords, i.e. do not
link to every possible reserved word. The example doesn't have to be
advanced or big, on the contrary, simple examples are better.
